# IDLab-AIRO Teleop
This repo contains two packages to enable teleoperation of (a.o.) robot systems at IDLab-AIRO. The first, airo-teleop-devices, abstracts away driver code and gives "uninterpreted" output of the teleoperation systems. The second, airo-teleop-agents, makes use of airo-teleop-devices and provides common bindings between the outputs of the teleoperation systems and robot hardware used at IDLab-AIRO. Keeping the "uninterpreted" teleop systems in a separate package allows to deploy them quickly for purposes beyond common robot manipulation experiments.

## Installation
The packages in this repo are not yet on pypi, to use them:
* Clone the repo
* In your environment, run `pip install -e <path-to-repo-clone>/airo-teleop-devices` (Analogous for airo-teleop-agents.)
* In your environment, run `pip install -r <path-to-repo-clone>/airo-teleop-devices/requirements.txt` (Analogous for airo-teleop-agents.)

> Everything below this is **auto-generated** from `airo-teleop-agents/README.md` and `airo-teleop-devices/README.md`.
> To update it, edit those files and run `python scripts/generate_readme.py` locally, or rely on the GitHub Action which will regenerate this README automatically on changes.

<!-- BEGIN AUTOGENERATED:START -->

---

### airo-teleop-devices (from `airo-teleop-devices/README.md`)

# IDlab-AIRO teleop devices driver package

This package provides readout of multiple teleop systems. The philisophy of this package is to provide readout of the raw teleop dimensions, abstracting away the driver code. This way, the teleop systems can also be deployed for purposes beyond robot manipulators, without including the dependency on e.g. airo-mono. The package airo-teleop-agents uses airo-teleop-devices to define specialised, ready to use teleop agents, that additionally map the raw teleop readouts to usable robot actions.

## SpaceMouse
Installation is described on [this webpage](https://spacemouse.kubaandrysek.cz/#dependencies-required).
For Ubuntu:
```
ยง sudo apt-get install libhidapi-dev`
ยง echo 'KERNEL=="hidraw*", SUBSYSTEM=="hidraw", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"' | sudo tee /etc/udev/rules.d/99-hidraw-permissions.rules`
ยง sudo usermod -aG plugdev $USER`
ยง newgrp plugdev`
```
and restart your computer.

`ValueError: Could not open SpaceMouse: Failed to open device` is known to be solved by unplugging and replugging the spacemouse in the USB port, or by trying a different USB port and going back to the first.


---

### airo-teleop-agents (from `airo-teleop-agents/README.md`)

# IDlab-AIRO teleop agents package

This package provides common bindings between teleop devices (airo-teleop-devices) and manipulators (airo-robots). These are intended to be plug-and-play, e.g. for a teleoperation demo. For example: if you want to control any UR arm and parallel position gripper with a Gello teleoperation arm, you'd instantiate the Gello4UR_ParallelGripper class from `gello_teleop_agents.py`. See also the `examples` folder.

Executing the action that a TeleopAgent returns is done outside of the scope of the TeleopAgent class. This is because the user must be free to use different movement commands (e.g. high frequency servoing vs discrete, low frequency moves), to change the order of the UR and gripper move command, to decide whether to .wait() for a gripper and/or UR command, ... .


<!-- END AUTOGENERATED:END -->






